# Teacherbot Overview
One of the main goals for the teacherbot is to connect people's discord ID to their GUSD 6-digit ID (student IDs).  This will be crucial in being able to successfully and easily take attendance.

## How to Connect Discord IDs to Student IDs
To connect student IDs to Discord IDs the teacherbot needs to take some "extreme" measure.  The bot is going to make it such that everyone who is not already in the database will automatically lose **ALL ACCESS** to server until they meet some certain conditions.  First and foremost, they must submit their student ID to the teacherbot.  After they submit their student ID they will be asked to confirm that the name corresponding to that student ID is correct.  Once all of the aforementioned steps are completed, they will then be given full access to the server.

## How to Make the Transition as Seamless as Possible
To make this process as seamless as possible anyone who is already in the bdaybot's database will be exempt from the losing access to the server (because we already have this person's ID). If someone is not in the database then they will lose access to the server.  What exactly does lose access mean though?  Losing access means that all of their roles in the server will be removed and they will only have access to certain channel(s) which will guide them in the process of regaining access to the server.  There are two possible implementations to help people regain access to the server.

### Option 1
This implementations would require two new channels to be created.  These two channel would be the only channels that the people who lost access to the server would be able to access.  The first channel would contain the instructions to regain access to the server.  This channel would be a **read only channel** that everyone would be able to see.  The second channel would be a **write only channel** where people could initiate the process of regaining access to the server.  In this channel the people would type their student IDs, which would then be stored by the teacherbot.  After this the student would then receive a DM message from the teacherbot requesting them to confirm that the name corresponding to the ID the submitted is in fact their name.  After this process has been completed they be granted entry back into the server and lose access to the previously mentioned channels.
### Option 2
This implementation would create a unique channel for every person who is not yet in the database to provide the required information to regain access to the server.  This implementation would require roughly a hundred or more channels, since I estimate there are at least this many people who are not yet in the database.  Each user would be able to complete the entire reentry process in this one channel as they would be the only person who be able to see this particular channel.  All the instructions for reentering the server would be in this channel.  And once they complete the reentry process, this channel will be deleted.

## Personal Opinion on Each Option
My opinion is that [Option 2] is the superior option.  Both options have advantages and disadvantages, however, in my opinion, I believe [Option 2] is the most user friendly option, which is why I consider it the superior option.  To understand why I believe this let's analyze the shortcomings of [Option 1], in terms of its user friendliness.  [Option 1] requires that the user look in three different places to complete the reentry process.  First the user must look in the read-only channel containing the instructions to reenter.  Next the user must type in the second channel to submit their ID.  And finally the user must check their DMs to confirm that the name corresponding to the ID they submitted is correct.  [Option 2] only requires the user to read, write, and confirm everything correct in **one channel**.  As opposed to **three different channels** with [Option 1].  The shortcoming with [Option 2] is scalability and clutter for the moderators who will be able to see all 100 (or more channels) channels at once.  Discord only allows up to 500 channels to be created in a server.  For our purposes we will not be exceeding this limit, unless there are over 500 people in the server who are not in the database, which appears to be unlikey.  As long as people complete the required steps to add themselves the database the number of channels will remain low, thus allow the server to stay under the 500 channel limit.  Another factors that makes [Option 1] less user friendly is if a user makes a mistake they will only be able to be notified of their mistake via a DM message.  This is once again an inconvenience for the user because the feedback for a user's action is not in the same location as the location the complete that action.  If there are no objections to this portion, then development will commence soon on [Option 2].

[Option 1]: https://github.com/ryanlee68/teacherbot/blob/master/Outline-of-Teachbot.md#option-1
[Option 2]: https://github.com/ryanlee68/teacherbot/blob/master/Outline-of-Teachbot.md#option-2
